
# Article:  PlayMaker
The [article](https://www.sporttechie.com/playermaker-soccer-technology-wearables-data) I looked at discussed the new PlayMaker platform and its expansion from the international, professional football(soccer) scene to now individual. The PlayMaker is a wearable silicone sensor positioned on the back of a football boot. The PlayMaker amasses a plethora of data and metrics based on each use and when worn with the entire team it can map out tactical data such as spacing and passing networks. The PlayMaker has already been implemented in a third of English Premier League, through teams such as Manchester City, Crystal Palace and Norwich City. It has been used in the MLS, as well as other international clubs and over 100 colleges in the US. Now, PlayMaker is looking to adapt its technology to be used by individuals in remote training. The new device, titled the Uno, is a response to the Coronavirus pandamic and is looking to bring the professional platform, to the everyday athlete. The new device will have a home docking station to charge and upload data to the cloud. The PlayMaker developers have had to fine tune and adjust their algorithms to adapt to perhaps younger athletes with much different styles of play to one in a professional capacity. The possibilites of having young players data which can reveal the longitudinal progress of development is exciting as well with the PlayMaker CEO, Guy Ahearon, stating “We can see the journey from the age of 12 to playing on a first team in MLS or Premier League level”. 
Overall, as data grows larger in all fields, particularly sports, it is interesting to see the crossover of analytics and data between larger professional clubs and institutions and individual players. This article is particularly interesting for that reason in addition to seeing the emergence of these tools on the actual football pitch is fascinating. As a huge football fan as well as someone who studies technology in university, this is the type of content that we are just only now starting to see and it is extremely exciting as I believe it can change the game for the better.
